Add Cody Ignore docs for enterprise (#292)
sourcegraph/docs: docs/cody/capabilities/ignore-context.mdx

# Cody Ignore

> You can control what context from your codebase is used by Cody in one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p className="subtitle">Learn how to ignore specific files or folders in your codebase when using Cody.</p>

The Cody Ignore feature helps you control what context from your codebase is used by Cody. You can do it via:
```

We need to add a subtitle.

-   Cody Context Filters (Cody Enterprise Only)
-   Cody Ignore File (All Cody users)

> ## Cody Context Filters (Cody Enterprise Only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cody Context Filters 
```

Let's add a callout instead of adding enterprise in the link.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info"> Cody Context Filters is available for Enterprise users and is currently in the Experimental stage.</Callout>
```

> Enterprise instances admins can use the Cody Context Filters to determine which repositories Cody is allowed to use as context in its requests to third-party LLMs. This functionality is currently experimental and is only supported under the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Admins on the Sourcegraph Enterprise instance can use the **Cody Context Filters** to determine which repositories Cody can use as the context in its requests to third-party LLMs. This functionality is currently experimental and is only supported with the following requirements:
```

> 1.  Having Cody Enterprise license and running a Sourcegraph version `>=5.4.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A valid Cody Enterprise license and a running Sourcegraph version `>=5.4.0`
```

We can do a bullet list instead.

> 2.  Using Cody client with Cody context filters support: Cody Web, Cody VS Code Extension, Cody JetBrains Extension. Any other client won't work if Cody context filters are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Works if you're using Cody for VS Code, Cody for JetBrains, and Cody for Web as your client
```
Let's also link to their individual docs.

> 3.  Cody client version satisfies the following version constrains: `>=1.20.0` for the VS Code and `>=6.0.0` for the JetBrains. Any earlier client versions won't work if Cody context filters are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Cody client meets the following version specs: VS Code `>=1.20.0` and JetBrains `>=6.0.0`
```

> 4.  Setting "cody-context-filters-enabled" feature flag to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setting the `cody-context-filters-enabled` feature flag to `true`
```

Administrators can configure the `cody.contextFilters` field in the site configuration with the repos that they wish Cody to exclude or only include using the following structure:

```json5
{
	// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one
	// field set (either `include` or `exclude`).
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one item.
		include: [
			{
				// Required. Should follow the RE2 syntax.
				repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.*'
			}
		],
		// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one item.
		exclude: [
			{
				// Required. Should follow the RE2 syntax.
				repoNamePattern: '.*analytics.*'
			}
		]
	}
}
```

### Interaction between include and exclude rules

> 1.  **`cody.contextFilters` field is not defined**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `cody.contextFilters` field is not defined

By default, there are no restrictions on the repositories Cody can use for context in requests to third-party LLMs. All repositories are included, and none are excluded
```

>     By default, there are no restrictions on the repositories Cody can use for context in requests to third-party LLMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
```

>     All repositories are included and none are excluded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

> 2.  **Only `include` rules are specified**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Only `include` rules are specified 

Cody is restricted from using content from repositories whose names match any specified patterns in the include field. Since no `exclude` rules are specified, no repositories are explicitly excluded

<Callout type="note">An `include` field might contain a catch-all pattern (e.g., a `regexp` matching any string). In this case, Cody can access content from any repository, as a single match in the `include` rules is sufficient for inclusion.</Callout>
```

>     Cody is restricted to using content from repositories whose names match any of the specified patterns in the include field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
```

>     Since no exclude rules are specified, no repositories are explicitly excluded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     Note: An include field might contain a catch-all pattern (e.g., a regexp matching any string). In this scenario,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  
```

>     Cody can access content from any repository, as a single match in the include rules is sufficient for inclusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

>     Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```json5
{
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// Only repositories whose names either start with 'github.com/sourcegraph/'
		// or contain 'cody' are allowed.
		include: [
			{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.+'},
			{repoNamePattern: '.*cody.*'}
		]
	}
}
```

> 3.  **Only `exclude` rules are specified**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Only `exclude` rules are specified

All repositories are considered included by default without the' include' rules. Cody is prohibited from using content from any repository whose name matches at least one pattern specified in the exclude field.

<Callout type="note">An `exclude` field may also contain a catch-all condition (e.g., a `regexp` matching any string). If such a match occurs, Cody is restricted from using content from any repository.</Callout>
```

>     In the absence of include rules, all repositories are considered included by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
```

>     Cody is prohibited from using content from any repository whose name matches at least one pattern specified in the exclude field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     Note: An exclude field may also contain a catch-all condition (e.g., a regexp matching any string).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     If such a match occurs, Cody is restricted from using content from any repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```json5
{
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// All repositories are allowed except for "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics"
		// or the ones containing "secret" in their name.
		exclude: [
			{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$'},
			{repoNamePattern: '.*secret.*'}
		]
	}
}
```

> 4. **Both `include` and `exclude` rules are specified**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Both `include` and `exclude` rules are specified
```

> In any requests to third-party LLMs, Cody can use content from a repository if its name matches any of the include patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When making requests to third-party LLMs, Cody can use content from a repository if its name matches any of the `include` patterns
```

> and does not match any of the exclude patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and does not match any of the `exclude` patterns.
```

> Thus, the exclude rules filter only the repositories allowed by the include rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, the `exclude` rules filter only the repositories allowed by the `include` rules.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```json5
{
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// All repositories starting with "github.com/sourcegraph/" are allowed
		include: [{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.+'}],
		// except for "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics"
		// and the ones containing "cody" in their name.
		exclude: [
			{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$'},
			{repoNamePattern: '.*cody.*'}
		]
	}
}
```

> ## Cody Ignore File (All Cody users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cody Ignore File
```

<Callout type="note">

> 	This feature is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Cody Ignore File functionality is available for all Cody Free, Pro and Enterprise users and is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported with
```

# Cody Ignore

<p className="subtitle">Learn how to ignore specific files or folders in your codebase when using Cody.</p>

The Cody Ignore feature helps you control what context from your codebase is used by Cody. You can do it via:

-   Cody Context Filters (Cody Enterprise Only)
-   Cody Ignore File (All Cody users)

## Cody Context Filters 
<Callout type="info"> Cody Context Filters is available for Enterprise users and is currently in the Experimental stage.</Callout>
Admins on the Sourcegraph Enterprise instance can use the **Cody Context Filters** to determine which repositories Cody can use as the context in its requests to third-party LLMs. This functionality is currently experimental and is only supported with the following requirements:

- A valid Cody Enterprise license and a running Sourcegraph version `>=5.4.0`
- Works if you're using Cody for VS Code, Cody for JetBrains, and Cody for Web as your client
- Your Cody client meets the following version specs: VS Code `>=1.20.0` and JetBrains `>=6.0.0`

> - Setting the `cody-context-filters-enabled` feature flag to `true`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

I feel like we shouldn't even advertise this yet, the feature isn't ready. And it's worth noting that this is a feature flag on the server, not the client.

Reviewer 3: @MaedahBatool let's talk through this during our 1:1 and @kalanchan's other point about whether these should be in the same page.

Administrators can configure the `cody.contextFilters` field in the site configuration with the repos that they wish Cody to exclude or only include using the following structure:

```json5
{
	// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one
	// field set (either `include` or `exclude`).
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one item.
		include: [
			{
				// Required. Should follow the RE2 syntax.
				repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.*'
			}
		],
		// Optional. If defined, it must have at least one item.
		exclude: [
			{
				// Required. Should follow the RE2 syntax.

> 				repoNamePattern: '.*analytics.*'

Author: >Should follow the RE2 syntax

☝🏻 is an important requirement and it may be overlooked if it's only mentioned in the comment. Should we duplicate it (or move to) as a separate paragraph below the code block (similar to the search page), @MaedahBatool?

			}
		]
	}
}
```

> ### Interaction between include and exclude rules

Reviewer 2: @taras-yemets @aramaraju this came up during JetBrains triaging, where the team was confused on the terminology around "Include" and "Exclude". I remember we discussed in the RFC that these properties are synonymous to Allow & Ignore, can we add an explanation here in the docs as well? 

something like 

"Include and Exclude rules are synonymous to "Allow and Ignore", where included repositories act like an allowlist and excluded repositories act like an ignore list" 

feel free to change up the wording, but something along those lines would make it more clear for customers IMO

    

For example:

```json5
{
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// All repositories are allowed except for "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics"
		// or the ones containing "secret" in their name.
		exclude: [
			{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$'},
			{repoNamePattern: '.*secret.*'}
		]
	}
}
```

4. Both `include` and `exclude` rules are specified

When making requests to third-party LLMs, Cody can use content from a repository if its name matches any of the `include` patterns
and does not match any of the `exclude` patterns.

Thus, the `exclude` rules filter only the repositories allowed by the `include` rules.

For example:

```json5
{
	'cody.contextFilters': {
		// All repositories starting with "github.com/sourcegraph/" are allowed
		include: [{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.+'}],
		// except for "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics"
		// and the ones containing "cody" in their name.
		exclude: [
			{repoNamePattern: '^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$'},
			{repoNamePattern: '.*cody.*'}
		]
	}
}
```

## Cody Ignore File

<Callout type="note">

> 	Cody Ignore File functionality is available for all Cody Free, Pro and Enterprise users and is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	Cody Ignore File functionality is available for Cody Free, Pro users and is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported in the
```

Reviewer 2: @aramaraju thoughts on removing any enterprise mentions in the current Cody Ignore File configuration? I feel like we're just going to confuse users that Cody Context Filters will be GA, but not the Cody Ignore File. And I think it's kinda broken right now

Reviewer 3: I'm okay with that

	VS Code extension.
</Callout>

All Cody users can also configure the `.codyignore` file to specify files or folders from your codebase to be ignored as context
by Cody through the following steps:

> ### Enabling Unstable Features

Reviewer 2: I feel like this "Enabling unstable features" section is a bit misleading, if i'm a user that has read about Cody Context Filters, and Cody Ignore files above, then it makes me feel like this section will teach me how to enable both features, which is not true as Cody Context Filters is not available yet and is not controlled through the editor. 

@MaedahBatool @aramaraju how should we clearly distinguish an experimental, unstable section (Cody Ignore), and a section that's clearly for Enterprise (Cody Context)?

# Cody Ignore

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can control what context from your codebase is used by Cody in one of two ways: 

- Cody Context Filters (Cody Enterprise Only)
- Cody Ignore File (All Cody users)
```

> <Callout type="note">This feature is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported with VS Code extension.</Callout>

Reviewer 3: Let's leave this disclaimer up?

> ## Enterprise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Excluding repos as context for Cody
```
Let's create two sections based on Cody Ignore for Repos and Cody Ignore File

> <Callout type="note">
> Client Support for Cody Context Filters

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enterprise instances admins can use the Cody Context Filter to determine which repositories Cody is allowed to use as context in its requests to third-party LLMs. This functionality is currently experimental and is only supported under the following conditions:
```

Author: We later communicate about clients' version restrictions. If clients meet them, Cody Ignore is probably not experimental yet 🤔

> -   Cody context filters are currently supported only by Cody Web.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- Requires a Cody Enterprise license and running a Sourcegraph version `>=5.4.0`
- Cody extension version `>=1.20.0` for the VS Code and `>=6.0.0` for the JetBrains. Any earlier client versions will not follow any context restrictions configured
- Enable the "cody-context-filters-enabled" feature flag. Be aware that enabling this feature may prevent VS Code and JetBrains clients that do not meet the minimum required version from working.
```

Reviewer 3: @kalanchan Need your input on the version numbers

@taras-yemets can you throw how to enable the feature flag here to? I don't know if it is just setting that to 'true'?

Author: > Need your input on the version numbers

[Slack discussion ](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C06Q9R098N4/p1713893399064379?thread_ts=1713443105.697789&cid=C06Q9R098N4)

> can you throw how to enable the feature flag here to? I don't know if it is just setting that to 'true'?

Yes, it's just setting to `true`. Will clarify it.

Author: > Any earlier client versions will not follow any context restrictions configured

For any earlier version completions, the endpoint (chat, commands, autocomplete) will return an error - effectively, Cody won't work.

Reviewer 3: Thanks Taras - updated the text :)

> -   Starting from May 27, support for Cody context filters will also be available on the Cody VS Code Extension and the Cody JetBrains Extension.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> -   A minimum required client version is enforced for these extensions: `>=1.20.0` for the VS Code extension and `>=6.0.0` for the JetBrains extension.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> -   If Cody context filters are defined in the site configuration, other Cody clients will not function as they do not support this feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> -   The feature is disabled by default until the required extensions versions are released. Administrators wishing to enable Cody context filters must activate the "cody-context-filters-enabled" feature flag. Be aware that enabling this feature may prevent VS Code and JetBrains clients that do not meet the version constraint from working.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

</Callout>

> Enterprise instances admins can define specific rules to determine which repositories Cody is allowed to utilize for context in its requests to third-party LLMs.
> 
> To establish these rules, administrators should configure the `cody.contextFilters` field in the site configuration.
> 
> The field structure is as follows:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Administrators can configure the `cody.contextFilters` field in the site configuration with the repos that they wish Cody to exclude or only include using the following structure:

```

```json
{
	"cody.contextFilters": {
		"include": [
			{
				"repoNamePattern": "^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.*"
			}
		],
		"exclude": [
			{
				"repoNamePattern": ".*analytics.*"
			}
		]
	}

> }

Reviewer 3: @taras-yemets I recommend throwing in comments to describe what each rule here does :)

-   Every item within the `include` and `exclude` fields must specify a `repoNamePattern`.
-   The `repoNamePattern` must conform to the regular expression syntax supported by [RE2](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax).

### Interaction between include and exclude rules

1.  **`cody.contextFilters` field is not defined**

    By default, there are no restrictions on the repositories Cody can use for context in requests to third-party LLMs.
    All repositories are included and none are excluded.

2.  **Only `include` rules are specified**

    Cody is restricted to using content from repositories whose names match any of the specified patterns in the include field.

    Since no exclude rules are specified, no repositories are explicitly excluded.

    Note: An include field might contain a catch-all pattern (e.g., a regexp matching any string). In this scenario,
    Cody can access content from any repository, as a single match in the include rules is sufficient for inclusion.

    Example:

```json
{
	"cody.contextFilters": {
		"include": [
			{"repoNamePattern": "^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.+"},
			{"repoNamePattern": ".*cody.*"}

> 		]

Reviewer 3: @taras-yemets I like this section, but it might be more powerful to use comments in the config file again to highlight what is happening. It feels like it will be easier to comprehend for me. At least that is my impression, we can ask others re: this too

	}
}
```

In the example above, in its requests to third-part LLMs Cody can use content from repositories whose names either start with 'github.com/sourcegraph/' or contain 'cody'.

3.  **Only `exclude` rules are specified**

    In the absence of include rules, all repositories are considered included by default.

    Cody is prohibited from using content from any repository whose name matches at least one pattern specified in the exclude field.

    Note: An exclude field may also contain a catch-all condition (e.g., a regexp matching any string).
    If such a match occurs, Cody is restricted from using content from any repository.

Example:

```json
{
	"cody.contextFilters": {
		"exclude": [
			{
				"repoNamePattern": "^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$"
			},
			{
				"repoNamePattern": ".*secret.*"
			}
		]
	}
}
```

In this example, in its requests to third-part LLMs Cody is barred from using repositories named "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics" or those containing the substring "secret".

4. **Both `include` and `exclude` rules are specified**

> Cody in requests to third-party LLMs can use content from a repository if its name matches any of the include patterns
> and does not match any of the exclude patterns.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In any requests to third-party LLMs, Cody can use content from a repository if its name matches any of the include patterns and does not match any of the exclude patterns.

```

> Thus, the exclude rules filter only the repositories allowed by the include rules.

Reviewer 3: I like to emphasize this in some form or the other. Thoughts on the best way to doing that? @MaedahBatool

Reviewer: @aramaraju emphasis as in a recommended way of doing it?

Reviewer 3: It is very easy to mix this up, so I want to shine a little bit of a light on this be it a callout, or other formatting :)

Example:

```json
{
	"cody.contextFilters": {
		"include": [
			{
				"repoNamePattern": "^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/.+"
			}
		],
		"exclude": [
			{
				"repoNamePattern": "^github\\.com\\/sourcegraph\\/cody-analytics$"
			},
			{
				"repoNamePattern": ".*cody.*"
			}
		]
	}
}
```

For the provided configuration, in its requests to third-party LLms Cody can use content from repositories starting with
"github.com/sourcegraph/" but not from those named "github.com/sourcegraph/cody-analytics" or containing the substring "cody".

> ## sourcegraph.com

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Cody Ignore File (All Cody users)
```

<Callout type="note">
	This feature is currently in the Experimental stage and only supported with
	VS Code extension.

> </Callout>

Reviewer 3: @MaedahBatool  whether we should have a callout on both sections or just one? Cody Ignore File is going to continue being experimental, while the repo based (Context Filters in the section above) will be GA'd for Cody Enterprises late May with JBs GA.

Reviewer: @aramaraju  let's have separate callouts for both. :)

> This guide will walk you through the process of ignoring specific files or folders in your codebase when using Cody.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Cody users can also configure the `.codyignore` file to specify files or folders from your codebase to be ignored as context by Cody through the following steps:
```

This will enable experimental features, including the ignore context feature.

> ### Using the Ignore Context Feature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using the Ignore File Feature
```
Should this just be called Ignore File? Thats what we label it as above
